CLINICAL INDICATION: Prostate research surveillance NOMCKRO 49177
 
COMPARISON: None.
 
TECHNICAL FACTORS:  A Siemens 3T Verio magnet was utilized. Axial
T1 TSE, multiplanar T2 TSE, axial dynamic perfusion images, axial
conventional DWI and high-resolution DWI images of the prostate
were obtained. Large field-of-view axial gradient echo T1, axial
T2 TSE, coronal T2 STIR, axial VIBE pre and postcontrast and
sagittal and coronal VIBE postcontrast of the whole pelvis. 
 
 
IMAGING MEDICATION: gadobutrol (GADAVIST) injection 7.5 mL 
 
FINDINGS: The DWI images and perfusion images are slightly limited
due to right hip prosthesis. There is significantly marked
distortion of the DWI conventional images as compared to the
high-resolution DWI images. The examination is diagnostic.
 
FINDINGS: The prostate gland is not enlarged measuring 3.8 x 2.6 x
2.9 cm with a calculated volume of 13.5 cc.
 
There are findings of benign prostatic hypertrophy. There are
well-defined nodules within the transitional zone with one nodule
at the right transitional zone which is suspicious and
characterized below this lesion 1.
 
The peripheral zone has homogeneous high T2 signal with no focal
lesions, areas of abnormal diffusion nor perfusion.
 
 
Lesion: 1
Location: Right transitional zone apex to mid gland level, 10-50 %
from apex, 11 o'clock position, 0-75 % from Center
Size: 1.1 x 0.8 x 1.2 cm, 0.58 cc
Margin: Abuts the anterior fibrous stroma but does not extend to
the capsule
T2: Homogeneously low T2 signal with slightly irregular margins,
3/5
DWI: High signal high B value and low signal ADC 690 mm 2/sec, 4/5
HR DWI: Very high signal high B value and very low signal ADC 483
mm 2/sec, 4/5
Perfusion: Focal increased enhancement above background, DCE
positive
Overall PIRADS: 3/5, indeterminant for clinically significant
neoplasm
 
The seminal vesicles are mildly atrophic but otherwise
unremarkable. 
The bladder is relatively decompressed.
There is no adenopathy within the lower abdomen or pelvis. 
Bowel shows no obstruction. There is significant sigmoid
diverticulosis.
The pelvic vasculature is patent.
A right hip prosthesis is present creating dephasing artifact
within the right hemipelvis. No suspicious osseous lesion present.
 
IMPRESSION:
1.  Lesion 1 right transitional zone PIRADS 3 indeterminant for
clinically significant neoplasm.
 
 
Standardized reporting guidelines follow recommendations by
ACR-ESUR PIRADS v2.
 
Reviewed and Interpreted by: Rola Saouaf, M.D.  3/30/2018 1:50 PM