CLINICAL INDICATION: Prostate cancer surveillance research 49177
 
COMPARISON: None.
 
TECHNICAL FACTORS:  A Siemens 3T Verio magnet was utilized. Axial
T1 TSE, multiplanar T2 TSE, axial dynamic perfusion images,
conventional axial DWI and high-resolution axial DWI images of the
prostate were obtained. Large field-of-view axial gradient echo
T1, axial T2 TSE, coronal T2 STIR, axial VIBE pre and postcontrast
and sagittal and coronal VIBE postcontrast of the whole pelvis. 
 
IMAGING MEDICATION: Gadavist 9.1 mL IV 
 
FINDINGS: The prostate gland is enlarged, measuring 5.6 x 4.4 x
6.1 cm with a calculated volume of 61.2 cc. PSA density: 0.07
ng/mL sq.
 
Transitional zone: Transitional zone hyperplasia with well defined
nodules, which are circumscribed on T2 weighted sequences. .
 
Peripheral zone: The left peripheral zone is relatively small with
heterogeneous signal. 2 lesions are identified and characterized.
The right peripheral zone has linear low signal with no discrete
lesion..
 
Lesion 1: 
Level/Location: Left peripheral zone apex and mid gland, 10-40%
from the apex,  4-5 o'clock, 75-100% from center. 
Size: 1 22 x 0.4 x 0.9 cm (calculated volume: 0.36 cc).
Margin: Abuts the capsule but does not deform it.
T2: Homogeneously T2; score: 4/5.
ADC/DWI: Low on ADC value and high on high b-value diffusion
sequences; score: 4/5. [ADC value 950 mm sq/sec]
HR ADC/DWI: Low on ADC value and high on high b-value diffusion
sequences; score: 4/5. [ADC value 815 mm sq/sec]
Perfusion: No increase enhancement above background, DCE negative
Overall PI-RADS: 4/5, PI-RADS 4: Clinically significant cancer is
likely.
 
Lesion 2:
Level/Location: Left peripheral zone mid gland, 50% from the apex,
 5:30, 75-100% from center. 
Size: 0.8 x 0.3 x 0.9 cm (calculated volume: 0.11 cc).
Margin: Abuts the capsule but does not deform it.
T2: Heterogeneously low T2; score: 4/5.
ADC/DWI: Low on ADC value and high on high b-value diffusion
sequences; score: 4/5. [ADC value 886 mm sq/sec]
HR ADC/DWI: Low on ADC value and high on high b-value diffusion
sequences; score: 4/5. [ADC value 641 mm sq/sec]
Perfusion: No increased enhancement of the background, DCE
negative
Overall PI-RADS: 4/5, PI-RADS 4: Clinically significant cancer is
likely.
 
 
Seminal vesicles: Normal
Urinary bladder: Relatively decompressed but does appear to be
mildly trabeculated suggesting outflow obstruction.
Pelvic lymph nodes: No significant lymphadenopathy
Pelvic bowel: Without obstruction
Pelvic vasculature: Patent
Bones: There is a right hip metallic hardware causing artifact and
distorting portion of the images in the right hemipelvis. No
suspicious lesions suggestive of metastasis. There is significant
osteoarthritis of the left hip.
Abdominal/pelvic wall: Unremarkable
 
IMPRESSION:
1.  Lesion 1  left peripheral zone apex and mid gland (calculated
volume 0.36 cc) ;  PI-RADS 4: Clinically significant cancer is
likely.
2.  Lesion 2  left peripheral zone mid gland (calculated volume of
0.11 cc) ; PI-RADS 4: Clinically significant cancer is likely.
 
Standardized reporting guidelines follow recommendations by
ACR-ESUR PIRADS v2.
 
Reviewed and Interpreted by: Rola Saouaf, M.D.  10/26/2018 2:06 PM